

In order to understand whether our universe is predetermined or probabilistic, let's look at the physical basis of probability.

Let's consider a simple experiment. We have a hundred numbered cubes in a box, and we arrange them identically before each experiment. Then each time we take a cube located in the same corner of the box. We always get a cube with the same number and the probability of getting it in the experiment is $1$. It is important to note that if we fully reproduce the initial and external conditions, as well as the actions in the experiment itself, we always get a cube with the same number. Moreover, we won't even know that there are cubes with other numbers in the box.

If, before starting each experiment, we shake the box thoroughly and try to guide our hand inside the box randomly, then with a sufficient number of experiments, the probability of pulling a cube with the same number will tend to $0.01$.

We get that the essence of probability is to conduct a series of different experiments in which the initial and external conditions, as well as actions, are not identical. It turns out that we intentionally create such conditions in a series of experiments in order to get different results.

We create different conditions and get different results. We create identical conditions and get identical results.

Everything is clear with macro objects, but what about quantum objects? Identicaly. If we cannot or do not want to recreate identical experimental conditions, we will also get a series of different results. A good example is the Large Hadron Collider, in which quantum particles with different velocities, interaction vectors, phases in the particles themselves (the mutual state of quarks in their composition) and other characteristics collide. In this example, we get a series of different results due to different experimental conditions for quantum objects, as well as in the case of macro objects. Now let's look at the quantum experiment of the collision of atoms or ions with energy much lower than a certain threshold (at which these quantum objects will scatter into their components), and we get that their probability of remaining in their original form tends to $1$. Next, let's look at the quantum experiment of the collision of atoms or ions with energy much higher than a certain threshold (at which these quantum objects will scatter into their components), and we get that their probability of remaining in their original form tends to $0$. We will obtain similar results in well-studied experiments with the quantum photoelectric effect. If the photon energy is much lower than the boundary of the photoelectric effect, then the probability of knocking out an electron tends to $0$. If the photon's energy is much higher than the boundary of the photoelectric effect, then the probability of knocking out an electron tends to $1$. It is especially worth emphasizing that all this is confirmed by all experimental data. All other experiments also prove that if you make the initial and external conditions of a series of experiments identical, then the results will be identical. The key problem with experiments at the quantum level is that it is often very difficult to reproduce all the most important conditions (states and locations of all elementary particles) of a series of experiments, since we have not yet learned how to control the states of quantum objects well enough. However, this is only a problem of our lack of knowledge and the accuracy of technical means.

The root cause of the misunderstanding of quantum effects is that interactions occur at the level of particles of the Standard Model and their minimal combinations, rather than at the level of macro objects. It does not take into account that the particles have different locations, vectors and states in each particular experiment from a series. For example, in a half-plane diffraction does not take into account that ions and their constituents have different locations and states, electrons are in different locations in orbits, and photons have different vectors. This is more than enough for a photon to be re-emitted in each particular experiment by atoms of a half-plane with a unique vector, which, combined with a series of these essentially different experiments, will give a distribution over the vectors forming the diffraction pattern on the screen. Although we are well aware that the elementary particles of obstacles interact with the quantum particles under study have different locations and states in each particular experiment from a series of experiments, but this is ignored. It is strange to expect that such experiments will give identical results, since in fact the initial and external conditions in them are different. In fact, due to the different initial and external conditions of a series of experiments, we have no right to talk about probability at all, since these are different experiments. This is no different from how, in the macrocosm, different football players try to score the ball to different goalkeepers from different positions in different weather conditions.

No matter which experiment in quantum mechanics or quantum field theory we take, everywhere the quantum particles under study interact with quantum particles of obstacles: polarizers, mirrors, half-silvered mirrors, lenses, atoms of a diffraction grating and other objects. And these quantum particles of obstacle significantly change their locations, vectors, states, and other characteristics in each individual experiment, which leads to different results between the experiments in a series.

As a result, probabilities, the wave function, all of quantum mechanics, and quantum field theory are built on a series of different experiments. Moreover, the scale level of the studied quantum particles is comparable to the scale level of the quantum particles of obstacles. And because of the variation of the initial and external conditions, we get a variation of the results in a series of experiments. In fact, the studied object of a quantum experiment and the quantum particles of obstacles are comparable by energies, masses, charges, spines, dimensions, areas and types of interaction, by other characteristics. And since the states of the object and the obstacle particles change fundamentally in each individual experiment, the results also change fundamentally. Nothing surprising, incomprehensible, or different from the macrocosm.

As you can see, the basis of quantum mechanics and quantum field theory is one simple lie that a series of identical experiments are being conducted. In fact, a series of different experiments are being conducted. Different quantum objects under study interact with different atoms of obstacles and their components. Moreover, they all have different states, locations, vectors, and other characteristics in each particular experiment from a series of experiments.

Summing all this, we get that the probability in the case of both macro objects and quantum objects is a consequence of imperfect experimental conditions, and not a property of our universe. If we conduct experiments with different conditions, we get different results. If we conduct experiments with identical conditions, we get identical results. 

As a result, the physics of our universe is unambiguous and predetermined, which leads us to the only path - fate.