

The hypothesis of dark matter originates from the assumption of the correctness of the theory of relativity, which, based on the experimentally recorded matter in the universe, predicts a different dynamics of galaxies in comparison with experimental data. 

Let's assume that dark matter exists. Then in what form can we detect it? 

If dark matter is a particle, then ordinary matter and photons passing near the centers of dark matter particles should be deflected by gravity. However, this would lead to the fact that the light from other galaxies would be catastrophically "noisy". That is, the observed picture would be so distorted that it would be impossible to recognize isolated stars and everything would merge into a single common stream of photons. This does not correspond to experimental data, and therefore this assumption is erroneous. 

If dark matter is large gravitational clumps, then they should strongly deflect photons passing near them. This should create an effect in the space of galaxies, in which we should detect many objects similar to black holes that strongly deflect photons, but do not absorb them.  This is also not observed experimentally, which proves the erroneous assumption of the presence of dark matter clumps.

As a result, no experimental data points to the reality of the existence of dark matter. In fact, the dark matter hypothesis is a consequence of the assumption that general relativity is correct, but as we can see, this does not correspond to experimental data. In this case, what could be the source of the dynamics of galaxies with the corresponding experimental data? Uneven gravity radiated by ordinary matter. A good example is blazars, whose relativistic jets can be caused not by the mythical electromagnetic fields of the accretion disk capable of overpowering a black hole, but by the uneven gravity of the blazar with a minimum along the axis of the relativistic jets. What could be the reason for the uneven radiation? The reason is that the particles inside the blazar move in a circle at relativistic speeds in a plane perpendicular to the jets. And in order to hold these particles, gravitons also move mainly in this plane. Because of this, a tiny portion of the gravitons leaks out of this disk of particles and gravitons. But even this part is enough to create a gravitational maximum in this plane. Due to the fact that gravity in this case spreads mainly in one plane, such a gravitational effect will fall in proportion to the distance, and not the square of the distance. All this explains the available experimental data without involving hypothetical dark matter.